JS Learn area: async module rewrite (#12930)
mdn/content: files/en-us/learn/javascript/asynchronous/introducing/index.md

title: Introducing asynchronous JavaScript
slug: Learn/JavaScript/Asynchronous/Introducing
tags:
  - JavaScript
  - Learn
---

{{LearnSidebar}}{{NextMenu("Learn/JavaScript/Asynchronous/Promises", "Learn/JavaScript/Asynchronous")}}

In this article we'll explain what asynchronous programming is, why we need it, and briefly discuss some of the ways asynchronous functions have historically been implemented in JavaScript.

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Prerequisites:</th>
      <td>
        Basic computer literacy, a reasonable understanding of JavaScript
        fundamentals, including functions and event handlers.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Objective:</th>
      <td>
        To gain familiarity with what asynchronous JavaScript is, how it differs from synchronous JavaScript, and why we need it.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

> Asynchronous programming is a technology that enables your program to start a potentially long-running task, and then rather than having to wait until that task has finished, to be able to continue to be responsive to other events while the task runs. Once the task is completed, your program is presented with the result.

Reviewer: "Asynchronous programming is a technology" - is it? I would have said it was a technique or approach or similar.

Author: Yes, technique is better. And reading your comment, yes I agree with all that. I guess your suggestion below was to address it? I have reworked it a bit, hope it's better now.

> Depending on the particular programs you write, you may not often have to implement your own asynchronous functions. But to do many interesting things, you'll have to *use* asynchronous functions correctly. That's because many functions provided by browsers can potentially take a long time, and are therefore asynchronous. For example:

Reviewer: Why highlight use?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on the particular programs you write, you may not have to implement your own asynchronous functions very often. But to do many interesting things, you'll have to use asynchronous functions correctly. That's because many functions provided by browsers can potentially take a long time, and are therefore asynchronous. For example:
```

```js
function doStep1(init) {
  return init + 1;
}

function doStep2(init) {
  return init + 2;
}

function doStep3(init) {
  return init + 3;
}

function doOperation() {
  let result = 0;
  result = doStep1(result);
  result = doStep2(result);
  result = doStep3(result);
  console.log(`result: ${result}`);
}

doOperation();
```

Here we have a single operation that's split into three steps, where each step depends on the last step. In our example the first step adds 1 to the input, the second adds 2, and the third adds 3. Starting with an input of 0, the end result is 6 (0 + 1 + 2 + 3). As synchronous code this is very straightforward. But what if we implemented the steps using callbacks?

```js
function doStep1(init, callback) {
  const result = init + 1;
  callback(result);
}

function doStep2(init, callback) {
  const result = init + 2;
  callback(result);
}

function doStep3(init, callback) {
  const result = init + 3;
  callback(result);
}

function doOperation() {
  doStep1(0, result1 => {
    doStep2(result1, result2 => {
      doStep3(result2, result3 => {
        console.log(`result: ${result3}`);
      });
    });

>   });

Reviewer 2: I am a little concerned that the first use of the arrow function is used in the last example only; if people are confused they may think the arrow function makes it asynchronous. Would it be possible to include an arrow function expression elsewhere, much earlier?

Author: Is there a particular place where you would like to see them? There are lots of arrow functions earlier in this article, and [arrow functions are explained earlier in the course](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/Functions#arrow_functions) and consistently used throughout. I hope that people taking this course, who haven't the disadvantage of having learned JS before arrow functions, will see them as the default, normal way to write anonymous callback functions.

title: Introducing asynchronous JavaScript
slug: Learn/JavaScript/Asynchronous/Introducing
tags:
  - JavaScript
  - Learn
---

{{LearnSidebar}}{{NextMenu("Learn/JavaScript/Asynchronous/Promises", "Learn/JavaScript/Asynchronous")}}

In this article we'll explain what asynchronous programming is, why we need it, and briefly discuss some of the ways asynchronous functions have historically been implemented in JavaScript.

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Prerequisites:</th>
      <td>
        Basic computer literacy, a reasonable understanding of JavaScript
        fundamentals, including functions and event handlers.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Objective:</th>
      <td>
        To gain familiarity with what asynchronous JavaScript is, how it differs from synchronous JavaScript, and why we need it.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

> Asynchronous programming is a technique that enables your program to start a potentially long-running task, and then rather than having to wait until that task has finished, to be able to continue to be responsive to other events while the task runs. Once the task is completed, your program is presented with the result.

Reviewer: No longer wrong, but  was thinking something more along the lines of (suggestion only):

```suggestion
Asynchronous programming is a technique allows you to run tasks in parallel rather than having to run them one after another (synchronously). Using this technique, programs can continue to be responsive even while waiting on long running tasks to complete.
```

Appreciate you probably wanted to capture the "kick it off and wait for a response semantics". 
The only reason I raise it is that it still feels a bit clunky.

Author: I think 'run tasks in parallel' is a bit much at this point in the module.

Reviewer: OK. Ignore then.
